GCP Installation Guide and Resource Reference (#649)
astronomer/docs: astro/resource-reference-gcp.md

---
sidebar_label: "GCP Resource Reference"
title: "Resources Required for Astro on GCP"
id: resource-reference-gcp

> description: Reference of all supported configurations for new Clusters on Astro in GCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Reference of all supported configurations for new Clusters on Astro on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
```

---

## Overview

> Unless otherwise specified, new Clusters on Astro are created with a set of default GCP resources that our team has deemed appropriate for most use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise specified, new Clusters on Astro are created with a set of default Google Cloud Platform (GCP) resources that our team has deemed appropriate for most use cases.
```

| Max Node Count | The maximum number of EC2 nodes that your Astro Cluster can support at any given time. Once this limit is reached, your Cluster cannot auto-scale and worker pods may fail to schedule. | 20 |
| [CloudSQL Instance](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/create-instance) | The CloudSQL instance is the primary database of the Astro Data Plane. It hosts a metadata database for each Airflow Deployment hosted on the GKE cluster. | Medium General Purpose (4vCPU, 16GB) |

## Supported Cluster Configurations

Depending on the needs of your team, you may be interested in modifying certain configurations of a new or existing Cluster on Astro. This section provides a reference for which configuration options are supported during the install process.

To create a new Cluster on Astro with a specified configuration, read [Install on GCP](install-gcp.md) or [Create a Cluster](create-cluster.md). For instructions on how to make a change to an existing Cluster, read [Modify a Cluster](modify-cluster.md).

### GCP Region

Astro supports the following GCP regions:

- `us-central1`
- `us-west1`

> Modifying the region of an existing Cluster on Astro is not supported. If you're interested in an AWS region that is not on this list, reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifying the region of an existing Cluster on Astro is not supported. If you're interested in a GCP region that is not on this list, reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io).
```

### Node Instance Type

> Astro supports the following general-purpose nodes for powering the Data Plane:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro supports a variety of GCP machine types. Machine types comprise of varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity. All system and Airflow components within a single Cluster are powered by the nodes specified during the Cluster creation or modification process.
```

Reviewer: BTW I'm using  `Machine Type` bc that's what GCP uses

Author: I removed some of this because I wouldn't say it's a "variety" at the moment...

- e2-standard-4
- e2-standard-8

> For more information about these node types, see [About Machine Families](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information on each instance type, see [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types). If you're interested in a machine type that is not on this list, reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io/). Not all machine types are supported in all GCP regions.
```
